README.md, before:

# github2gerrit action

The action extracts the commits from a GitHub pull-request and submits them to an upstream Gerrit repository. This allows GitHub developers to contribute to Gerrit-based repositories that are primarily maintained on Gerrit servers and replicated onto GitHub.

## Pre-requisites

1. GitHub replication is set up on the Gerrit repository over SSH. Refer to the [Gerrit replication configuration setup guide](https://docs.releng.linuxfoundation.org/en/latest/infra/gerrit.html) maintained by the Linux Foundation release engineering team. This also requires creating ssh-keypair
   and [registering the SSH keys](https://docs.releng.linuxfoundation.org/en/latest/gerrit.html#register-key-gerrit) with Gerrit.
2. Create a user account on GitHub with permissions to submit changes to Gerrit and ensure it is added to the GitHub organization or repository as a member.
3. Use a [.gitreview](https://docs.opendev.org/opendev/git-review/latest/installation.html#gitreview-file-format) file point to the Gerrit server and repository. If this not alternatively pass the GERRIT_SERVER or GERRIT_PROJECT as inputs to the workflow.

## How the Action Works

The action and workflow are written with bash scripts using well known Git SCM tools, gh, jq and git-review.

1. The action is triggered when a new pull request is created on a GitHub repository configured with the action.
2. Squash all the commits in the pull request into a single commit.
3. Check for a Change-Id line in the pull request commit message. If it is not present, add the Change-Id to the commit. If the Change-Id is found in any of the commits, it will be reused along with the patch.
4. Create a Gerrit patch with the Change-Id, squashing all PR changes into a single commit.
5. Add a pull-request reference as a comment on the Gerrit change for committers or reviewers to refer to the source of change request.
6. Close the pull request once the Gerrit patch is submitted. A comment is added to the pull request with the URL to the change. Any updates will require the pull request to be reopened. Updates to the pull request are done with a force push, which triggers the workflows to ensure the change is resubmitted.

## Features

### Use pull-request a commit message

-   Commits in a pull request are squashed into a single commit before submitting the change request to Gerrit.

### Use pull-request a commit message

-   Set the commit message as pull request body and title along with the change-Id and Signed-off-by lines. Commit message are squashed and the commit body and tittle are discarded.

## Caveats - Future Improvements

-   Commits in a pull request are submitted as independent change requests to Gerrit under the same topic.
-   Code review comments on Gerrit will not be updated back on the pull request, requiring developers to follow up on the Gerrit change request URL.

## Required Inputs

-   `GERRIT_KNOWN_HOSTS`: Known host of the Gerrit repository.
-   `GERRIT_SSH_PRIVKEY_G2G`: SSH private key pair (The private key has to be added to the Gerrit user's account settings. Gerrit -> User Settings).
-   `GERRIT_SSH_USER_G2G`: Gerrit server username (Required to connect to Gerrit).
-   `GERRIT_SSH_USER_G2G_EMAIL`: Email of the Gerrit user.

## Optional Inputs

-   `USE_PR_AS_COMMIT`: Use commit body and tittle from pull-request (Default: false)
-   `FETCH_DEPTH`: fetch-depth of the clone repo. (Default: 10)
-   `GERRIT_PROJECT`: Gerrit project repository (Default read from .gitreview).
-   `GERRIT_SERVER`: Gerrit server FQDN (Default read from .gitreview).
-   `GERRIT_SERVER_PORT`: Gerrit server port (Default: 29418)
-   `ORGANIZATION`: The GitHub Organization or Project.
-   `REVIEWER_EMAIL`: Committers' email list (comma-separated list without spaces).

## Full Example Usage with Composite Action

Use the composite action as a step in the workflow for further processing.

```yaml
---
# SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
# Copyright 2024 The Linux Foundation <abelur@linux.com>

name: call-github2gerrit-composite-action

# yamllint disable-line rule:truthy
on:
    pull_request_target:
        types: [opened, reopened, edited, synchronize]
        branches:
            - master
            - main

jobs:
    call-in-g2g-workflow:
        permissions:
            contents: read
            pull-requests: write
        runs-on: ubuntu-latest
        steps:
            - uses: actions/checkout@v4
              with:
                  token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
            - name: "Call the lfit/github2gerrit composite action"
              id: gerrit-upload
              uses: lfit/github2gerrit@main
              with:
                  FETCH_DEPTH: 10
                  GERRIT_KNOWN_HOSTS: ${{ vars.GERRIT_KNOWN_HOSTS }}
                  GERRIT_SERVER: ${{ vars.GERRIT_SERVER }}
                  GERRIT_SERVER_PORT: "29418"
                  GERRIT_SSH_PRIVKEY_G2G: ${{ secrets.GERRIT_SSH_PRIVKEY_G2G }}
                  GERRIT_SSH_USER_G2G: ${{ vars.GERRIT_SSH_USER_G2G }}
                  GERRIT_SSH_USER_G2G_EMAIL: ${{ vars.GERRIT_SSH_USER_G2G_EMAIL }}
                  ORGANIZATION: ${{ vars.ORGANIZATION }}

            - name: "Output change-number and change URL"
              shell: bash
              run: |
                  echo "Change URL: ${{ steps.change_num.outputs.GERRIT_CHANGE_REQUEST_URL }}"
                  echo "Change number: ${{ steps.change_num.outputs.GERRIT_CHANGE_REQUEST_NUMBER }}"
```

## Full Example usage with reusable workflow

Call the reusable workflow as standalone job.

```yaml
---
# SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
# Copyright 2024 The Linux Foundation <abelur@linux.com>

name: call-github2gerrit-reusable-workflow

# yamllint disable-line rule:truthy
on:
    workflow_dispatch:
    pull_request_target:
        types: [opened, reopened, edited, synchronize]
        branches:
            - master
            - main

concurrency:
    # yamllint disable-line rule:line-length
    group: ${{ github.workflow }}-${{ github.run_id }}
    cancel-in-progress: true

jobs:
    call-in-g2g-workflow:
        permissions:
            contents: read
            pull-requests: write
        uses: lfit/github2gerrit/.github/workflows/github2gerrit.yaml@main
        with:
            GERRIT_KNOWN_HOSTS: ${{ vars.GERRIT_KNOWN_HOSTS }}
            GERRIT_SSH_USER_G2G: ${{ vars.GERRIT_SSH_USER_G2G }}
            GERRIT_SSH_USER_G2G_EMAIL: ${{ vars.GERRIT_SSH_USER_G2G_EMAIL }}
            ORGANIZATION: ${{ vars.ORGANIZATION }}
        secrets:
            GERRIT_SSH_PRIVKEY_G2G: ${{ secrets.GERRIT_SSH_PRIVKEY_G2G }}
```

## Contributions

We welcome contributions! If you have any ideas, suggestions, or improvements, please feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request. Your contributions are greatly appreciated!

Commit message:

Feat: Enable support to submit single commits
Each commit in the pull request are processed individually as a
single commit before submitting to Gerrit repository. This option
allows you to preserve git history.

This requires `inputs.SUBMIT_SINGLE_COMMITS` to be set to 'true'
from the caller.

Remove extra inputs. Gerrit server and port and project has be read
from .gitreview file. Composite actions have a limitation on
the number of the inputs that can be passed to 10.

Update doc example with new feat options.

Signed-off-by: Anil Belur <abelur@linuxfoundation.org>

README.md, after:

# github2gerrit action

The action extracts the commits from a GitHub pull-request and submits them to an upstream Gerrit repository. This allows GitHub developers to contribute to Gerrit-based repositories that are primarily maintained on Gerrit servers and replicated onto GitHub.

## Pre-requisites

1. GitHub replication is set up on the Gerrit repository over SSH. Refer to the [Gerrit replication configuration setup guide](https://docs.releng.linuxfoundation.org/en/latest/infra/gerrit.html) maintained by the Linux Foundation release engineering team. This also requires creating ssh-keypair
   and [registering the SSH keys](https://docs.releng.linuxfoundation.org/en/latest/gerrit.html#register-key-gerrit) with Gerrit.
2. Create a user account on GitHub with permissions to submit changes to Gerrit and ensure it is added to the GitHub organization or repository as a member.
3. Use a [.gitreview](https://docs.opendev.org/opendev/git-review/latest/installation.html#gitreview-file-format) file point to the Gerrit server and repository. If this not alternatively pass the GERRIT_SERVER or GERRIT_PROJECT as inputs to the workflow.

## How the Action Works

The action and workflow are written with bash scripts using well known Git SCM tools, gh, jq and git-review.

1. The action is triggered when a new pull request is created on a GitHub repository configured with the action.
2. One of the below options can be used depending on the workflow followed by the community.

-   Squash all the commits in the pull request into a single commit and use consolidate the commit titles and body into a single commit (Default).
-   Squash all the commits in the pull request into a single commit and using the pull request title and body as the commit title and body (USE_PR_AS_COMMIT).
-   Submit each commit as a separate single commit preserving the git history (SUBMIT_SINGLE_COMMITS).

3. Check for a Change-Id line in the pull request commit message. If it is not present, add the Change-Id to the commit. If the Change-Id is found in any of the commits, it will be reused along with the patch.
4. Add the Change-Id (and optionally squash changes into a single commit if required).
5. Add a pull-request and workflow run reference link as a comment on the Gerrit change that was created for committers or reviewers to back reference to the source of change request.
6. Add a comment to the pull request with the URL to the change. Any updates will require the pull request to be reopened and updates to the pull request must be done with a force push, which triggers the workflows to ensure the change is resubmitted.
7. Close the pull request once the Gerrit patch is submitted successfully.

## Features

### Use pull-request as a single squashed commit message

-   Commits in a pull request are squashed into a single commit before submitting the change request to Gerrit. This is the default behavior shown in the caller workflow examples.
-   Merge commits get filtered out.
-   Here `inputs.SUBMIT_SINGLE_COMMITS` is set to 'false' by default.

### Use pull-request body and title in the commit message

-   The commit message title and body is extracted from the pull request body and title along with the change-Id and Signed-off-by lines. Commits are still squashed and while only the commit body and title are discarded.
-   Requires setting `inputs.USE_PR_AS_COMMIT` to 'true'.
-   This option is exclusive with `inputs.SUBMIT_SINGLE_COMMITS` and cannot be used together.

### Submit each commit as a separate single commit

-   Each commit in the pull request are processed individually as a single commit before submitting to Gerrit repository. This option allows you to preserve git history.
-   Requires `inputs.SUBMIT_SINGLE_COMMITS` to be set to 'true' in the caller.

## Caveats - Future Improvements

-   `inputs.SUBMIT_SINGLE_COMMITS` has not be tested extensively for handling large pull requests.
-   Code review comments on Gerrit are not synchronized back to the pull request comment, therefore requires developers to follow up on the Gerrit change request URL. Rework through the recommended changes can be done by reopening the pull request and updating to the commits through a force push.

## Required Inputs

-   `GERRIT_KNOWN_HOSTS`: Known host of the Gerrit repository.
-   `GERRIT_SSH_PRIVKEY_G2G`: SSH private key pair (The private key has to be added to the Gerrit user's account settings. Gerrit -> User Settings).
-   `GERRIT_SSH_USER_G2G`: Gerrit server username (Required to connect to Gerrit).
-   `GERRIT_SSH_USER_G2G_EMAIL`: Email of the Gerrit user.

## Optional Inputs

-   `SUBMIT_SINGLE_COMMITS`: Submit one commit at a time to the Gerrit repository (Default: false)
-   `USE_PR_AS_COMMIT`: Use commit body and title from pull-request (Default: false)
-   `FETCH_DEPTH`: fetch-depth of the clone repo. (Default: 10)
-   `GERRIT_PROJECT`: Gerrit project repository (Default read from .gitreview).
-   `GERRIT_SERVER`: Gerrit server FQDN (Default read from .gitreview).
-   `GERRIT_SERVER_PORT`: Gerrit server port (Default: 29418)
-   `ORGANIZATION`: The GitHub Organization or Project.
-   `REVIEWER_EMAIL`: Committers' email list (comma-separated list without spaces).

## Full Example Usage with Composite Action

Use the composite action as a step in the workflow for further processing.
Example workflow does not enable `SUBMIT_SINGLE_COMMITS` and `USE_PR_AS_COMMIT`

```yaml
---
# SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
# Copyright 2024 The Linux Foundation <abelur@linux.com>

name: call-github2gerrit-composite-action

# yamllint disable-line rule:truthy
on:
    pull_request_target:
        types: [opened, reopened, edited, synchronize]
        branches:
            - master
            - main

jobs:
    call-in-g2g-workflow:
        permissions:
            contents: read
            pull-requests: write
        runs-on: ubuntu-latest
        steps:
            - uses: actions/checkout@v4
              with:
                  token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
            - name: "Call the lfit/github2gerrit composite action"
              id: gerrit-upload
              uses: lfit/github2gerrit@main
              with:
                  SUBMIT_SINGLE_COMMITS: "false"
                  USE_PR_AS_COMMIT: "false"
                  FETCH_DEPTH: 10
                  GERRIT_KNOWN_HOSTS: ${{ vars.GERRIT_KNOWN_HOSTS }}
                  GERRIT_SSH_PRIVKEY_G2G: ${{ secrets.GERRIT_SSH_PRIVKEY_G2G }}
                  GERRIT_SSH_USER_G2G: ${{ vars.GERRIT_SSH_USER_G2G }}
                  GERRIT_SSH_USER_G2G_EMAIL: ${{ vars.GERRIT_SSH_USER_G2G_EMAIL }}
                  ORGANIZATION: ${{ vars.ORGANIZATION }}

            - name: "Output change-number and change URL"
              shell: bash
              run: |
                  echo "Change URL: ${{ steps.change_num.outputs.GERRIT_CHANGE_REQUEST_URL }}"
                  echo "Change number: ${{ steps.change_num.outputs.GERRIT_CHANGE_REQUEST_NUMBER }}"
```

## Full Example usage with reusable workflow

Call the reusable workflow as standalone job.

```yaml
---
# SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
# Copyright 2024 The Linux Foundation <abelur@linux.com>

name: call-github2gerrit-reusable-workflow

# yamllint disable-line rule:truthy
on:
    workflow_dispatch:
    pull_request_target:
        types: [opened, reopened, edited, synchronize]
        branches:
            - master
            - main

concurrency:
    # yamllint disable-line rule:line-length
    group: ${{ github.workflow }}-${{ github.run_id }}
    cancel-in-progress: true

jobs:
    call-in-g2g-workflow:
        permissions:
            contents: read
            pull-requests: write
        uses: lfit/github2gerrit/.github/workflows/github2gerrit.yaml@main
        with:
            GERRIT_KNOWN_HOSTS: ${{ vars.GERRIT_KNOWN_HOSTS }}
            GERRIT_SSH_USER_G2G: ${{ vars.GERRIT_SSH_USER_G2G }}
            GERRIT_SSH_USER_G2G_EMAIL: ${{ vars.GERRIT_SSH_USER_G2G_EMAIL }}
            ORGANIZATION: ${{ vars.ORGANIZATION }}
        secrets:
            GERRIT_SSH_PRIVKEY_G2G: ${{ secrets.GERRIT_SSH_PRIVKEY_G2G }}
```

## Contributions

We welcome contributions! If you have any ideas, suggestions, or improvements, please feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request. Your contributions are greatly appreciated!
